A new way to success?-Critical Review of "The Sweet Spot"


With the social development, the importance of self-skills has been emphasised as an adaption to innovation society. People began to find some effective ways to improve themselves. Journalist Daniel Coyle gave us a new method in his essay "The Sweet Spot". In his essay, based on the interviews of successful indivadules across a wide spectrum of fields, Coyle argued that it was not necessary for people to be born talent to reach the desired destination. Everybody could win their success through the right way of deep practice. He demonstrated this arguments in 3 steps.

In the first place, Coyle asked three questions to catch the readers' attention. The first question, why a lot of successful people came out of "Chicken-weire Harvards"? The so called "Chicken-wire Harvards" refers to the tiny places which produce everest-size amounts of talent (Coyle,11). While visiting these places, instead of being dazzled by the gorgeous talents, he witnessed some moments of slow, fitful struggle (Coyle, 12). He explained this kind of scenario with a simile, "It was as if the herd of deer suddenly encountered a hillside coated with ice" (Coyle, 12). Here came the second question, why these struggle made them better? In order to narrow down this murky question, Coyle used the case of Brazilian soccer players, and asked the third question, how does Brazil produce so many great players (Coyle, 15)? In this part, he proposed his view about the way to success, the Deep Practice.

In the second place, Coyle began to explain the steps to do the Deep Practice. First of all, people should find a sweet spot which encouraged them to be passionate about a field. Then they needed to set up a set of achievable goals. On the way to these goals, people might make valuable mistakes, learning from which they could improve themselves. And the final destination was at the end of the way.

Finally, Coyle illustrated how the Deep Practice improved the training of both dangerous jobs like pilots and ordinary skill experts like soccer players. In the field of pilots training, the "Edwin Link's Unusual Device" (Coyle, 20), which was a flying simulator, made the normal people able to join the club of pilots, which was dominated by the "born talents", by giving them the chance to make safe mistakes. When came to the case of soccer players, a special indoor training game was introduced to give the players more chance to face complex situations. With this kind of training, the players could get experience more efficiently, so that they could response rapidly in the real game. As this kind of game was widely played in Brazil, the author named it the "Brazil's Secret Weapon" (Coyle, 24).

A good essay comes up with clear logic and reasonable structure. Another shining point of this essay was the citing of quotations and evidences. They made the author's point more understandable and persuasive.

On one hand, he used quotations to illustrate the concept of deep practice. Coyle quoted what Robert Bjork said to support his opinion about the importance of experience, "One real encounter, even for a few seconds, is far more useful than several hundred observations. (Coyle, 18)" On the other hand, he described the real world scenarios to help the readers understand what he wanted to say. The soccer player in Brazil and the musician in Dallas (Coyle, 13), their stories happened every day in some corners of the world. Remembering the names  in a party (Coyle, 17), learning to use the life vest (Coyle, 17), were both everyday life scenarios. Readers may feel them more familiar than boring concepts.

In his study, people who had no talent could practice in a right way to achieve success. There are still some problems, however, with Coyle's arguments. One of them is that although there were people in some fields became experts by applying the Deep Practice, it is still a factual description, not a scientific demonstration. It is undefined that if the way of practice is effective to everyone in every fields. People could always argue there may be some areas, like mathematics or art creation, where the talents were forever required.

Despite of that, we can still learn some useful suggestions. For instance, the steps of the Deep Practice. We could figure out our passions, set reasonable goals and don't be afraid of making mistakes. It's a practical approach to improve ourselves.
Coyle's essay is also a good example for us to learn how to integrate evidences in an article. When we write essays, it is more effective to cite evidences to express one's point than explaining complex concepts. In summary, while Coyle's essay is not a scientific thesis, it does offer a useful method to get new skills.
